I think it's really fun inside of semi
analysis because we have 90 people and
like a big chunk of them are
technologists engineers across the whole
supply chain. Um, and then a big chunk
is people who are formerly at hedge
funds. And you see these arguments like
people are like, "Oh, well that doesn't
matter." And it's like, then someone's
like, "Well, but cost." And then someone
the engineers like, "No, no, no, but
this technology is the coolest." And you
see this you see this organically like
fight it out. Um, and and we're pretty
informal and you know, given the fact
that I was a for moderator, you can
imagine what the the
enjoying it. You don't wrestle with a
pig because a pig enjoys it, right?
Exactly.
We're here in the semi analysis office
with Dylan Patel. You know, I'm Sean
from Sequoia. My partner Sonia Huang.
It's pretty insane what you've done.
Semi semis 5 years ago were not very
sexy in the west. They were sexy in the
east but uh people here in the west had
kind of forgotten about them. You did
not forget about them though. You went
very long. You created probably the
premier research company in the space
that's been educating the world and you
know the state of the art from very
technical details to supply chain you
know to the bigger picture. Um there's
rumors that semi analysis recently
passed 100 million of revenue. I don't
know how accurate those are. Whatever
the numbers are you guys are crushing.
&gt;&gt; It's it's as accurate as the information
is. Yeah. Cool. You know, you never you
never know. Um there's also rumors that
you might start a venture fund like you
know I I hear all the time in the
ecosystem people wanting you know
affiliation with semi analysis. You
you've built this trusted brand and so
whatever you do it's working. This
clearly like just the beginning of the
journey for you. Congratulations all of
that. But how did this happen? Like how
did you first question is like what is
the background? How did you kind of get
to where you are now? Well, well, when I
was a young boy in the, you know, coming
out of the womb. No. So, so, okay. So, I
grew up in like a small business. My
parents had a motel. We lived in the
motel. We laid our gas station. So, you
know, uh I was selling. You know, I joke
a lot of times the first neural network
I trained was uh racially and and
visually profiling people based on when
they enter the gas station, which
cigarette to uh pick. Right. Basically,
you know, the cigarettes were all
extrudeed across the top and I was too
short to actually like, you know, reach
them and technically it wasn't legal to
sell cigarettes at that age, but
whatever. I I had to move the step stool
over to the right area.
&gt;&gt; I started working my first job was
before it was legal, too. So, but it's
good experience.
&gt;&gt; Well, I didn't get paid, right? It's a
family business. Same.
&gt;&gt; Same. Um, but yeah, we had our motel and
then across the street was our gas
station. So, you know, sometimes, you
know, you know, someone would walk in
and so like if a old white lady with
curly hair walked in, I'd move the
ladder or the step stool over to where
the camels are. And if you know and you
know different different age,
demographic, profession, you know, race,
etc. I would move the step stool over
and I joke this is the first neural
network I trained because if I waited
for them to tell me I'd have to like
move it over and then I'd step up versus
like just being ready. Um so you know
menthols versus, you know, 100 slims and
all these things, you know, I joke
that's the first neural network I
trained. But I grew up in family
businesses. Um lived in a motel and um
it all really goes back to when I was
like, you know, it was my 8th birthday.
Um, my birthday's in May. Um, and it was
April when the Xbox 360 was announced.
Um, for my birthday, I didn't ask for
the Xbox or I didn't ask for a birthday
gift. My parents asked what I wanted. I
asked for it for Christmas. Uh, we
celebrated Christmas, but there was no
way, at least at the time, I thought
there was no way they would ask would
give me the Xbox 360 for Christmas and
so I got it for I asked for my birthday
for tab for Christmas. Anyways,
Christmas comes around, I get it. Um,
you know, fast forward a couple months,
my cousin who lives in Alabama, they
also lived in a motel, was going to come
over for spring break, um, for his
spring break and we were going to just
hang out at my house and he's in between
me and my older brother in age,
brother's a bit more jockey. Um, so he
didn't really care too much about the
Xbox. He played sometimes, but he didn't
really care. Um, but my cousin, you
know, I wanted to think I'm him to think
I was cool, right? You know, so I
bragged many times on the phone. I was
like, "Yeah, I got an Xbox." And then
the Xbox broke. There was something
there's a hardware defect called the red
ring of death. Um, but long story short,
I had to open it up and, you know, short
the temperature sensor and it fixed it.
Um, but I there was many other tricks I
tried first and none of them worked. Um,
and so that's sort of how I like got
into hardware. I was like open Pandora's
box. By the time I was 12, I was like on
these forums a lot reading uh posting a
lot and this is around the time when
Reddit ate all other forms and so I
became a moderator of you know Android
and Apple and Google as well as like
hardware and was watch you know looking
at Intel, Nvidia and AMD and all these
other forms right? I was build a PC. All
these forms I was watching, reading,
posting a lot, but some of them I was
moderating a lot. Um, and so, you know,
smartphones, watching smartphones
develop from like very simple to speed
racing to being technologically more
advanced than PCs, um, in many ways
architecturally and and same with like,
you know, all the in GPUs like just
tracking and watching at that, reading
every comment. Um, always having the
economic tinge because I grew up in a
small business. So, I was always looking
at the economics, right? There was a
time where all the like I'd say neck
beards on the internet loved AMD GPUs
and like I personally had bought an AMD
GPU too because price performance but
then when it came down to like what's
technically better I'd always be like no
no no Nvidia is better because they use
a smaller chip to get you know better
performance at better power efficiencies
and their margins better and and so like
I would always like talk about how
Nvidia's margins were better than than
AMD's in the GPU landscape and so it's
like very fun.
&gt;&gt; And you were 12 at the time. I started
moderating when I was 12, but this is
all through my teenage tween age and
high school years, right?
&gt;&gt; Do you have any other weird hobbies or
was it just semis?
&gt;&gt; I played a ton of Starcraft. At one
point, I was grandmaster on the North
American ladder. Starcraft 2.
&gt;&gt; Very serious.
&gt;&gt; So, you've gotten just obsessively good
at multiple things.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean, it's it's it's obsession
is good.
&gt;&gt; How were your grades?
&gt;&gt; Um, they were decent. Um, I would say
like I had mostly A's, but they're
classes that I like were thought were
really boring or, you know, I just
didn't enjoy. Um, like Spanish I got
like not the greatest grades. Um, you
know, but but it was like I speak fluent
Spanish by the way, so it's really dumb.
But like it's just sort of
&gt;&gt; maybe that's why you didn't get a good
grade.
&gt;&gt; I didn't learn Spanish till later to be
fair. But yeah, so sort of my grades
were fine, right? Like I mean I like
they were fine enough for Asian parents.
&gt;&gt; I was better than most of school but you
know it wasn't like you know tryh hard
maxing for like you know all A's.
&gt;&gt; Okay. So you're very much a student of
the internet then this is how you how
you develop this expertise. At what
point do you decide to start semi
analysis and what's been the biggest
surprise since starting the company?
&gt;&gt; Yeah so I went to school I got a few
degrees in stuff that wasn't related to
semiconductors. Um was a quant for two
years at a small quant risk firm. Um and
then basically, you know, there's a
culmination of events that happened,
right? One was that my um you know, sort
of like I got screwed out of a bonus. I
I'd made my company many millions of
revenue of risk-free revenue because I
exploited like a risk, you know, thing
in the market. Um you know, I think well
over 10 million and they then someone
else took credit for my work and all
this sort of stuff. But eventually I did
get rightsized. But you know, I lost a
social contract with the company I was
working with. Um add some you know, my
grand my grandparents grew up in my
house with us, right? are in the motel
with us. Uh they lived with us and so
you know very close with them and my
grandmother got dementia and she forgot
who I was and she she fell down some
stairs and had like a tragic accident
and passed away. So all of that happened
in early 2020. Um additionally there
were some like you know girl things and
so you know there's a few things that
happened that made me like kind of very
sad. Um
and and and so all of those things sort
of culminated. Then co happened and my
brother's like dude just just come stay
with me. He lived in Nashville so I came
and stayed with him in Nashville. We
were like, "Oh, lockdowns will be a few
weeks. You can stay with me while they
happen and then you can go back home and
you know, whatever." Famous last words.
Lockdowns lasted much longer. But, you
know, living with my brother for a few
months, you know, was like sort of like,
okay, didn't know what I was doing. I
was now at my brother's home. Um,
everything was his rules. You know, sort
of like, you know, him and him and his
fiance at the time, now wife, you know,
were like there. And so, like, I
basically had to tiptoe around, but I
didn't care about my job. And so, I was
like posting even more than normal. I'd
always been posting a lot on the
internet. I'd always been trading stocks
a lot, but like I made a lot of money
shorting COVID and long in COVID and
like all this stuff. Semiconductor
shortages happened around then too. And
anyways, I was like very much obsessed
with posting and and things like that.
And eventually um around that time
someone I got into an argument with
someone on the internet and they doxed
me, right? They they publicly revealed
my identity for my anonymous account.
And at the time I was like, "Oh no, I
scared. I stopped posting for like three
weeks and I was like, what am I doing?
Why do I care?" So then I just started
posting under I had like had like blogs
and stuff as well. I made a real blog,
semi- analysis, and on my 24th birthday,
I posted um you know, two blogs and and
then from there it just like it was not
a newsletter, but I got so much traction
because now instead of posting on an
anonymous name, it was a real name and I
put a lot more effort into those two
posts than I usually did. Instead of
like posting on the internet, it
was like real effort into the blog. Um
you can actually go back and read those
if you want. They're they're not that
great, but you know, they were they were
good for the time. They were the best
stuff you could find on the internet
about semis. Um, and and I just kept
posting, posting, posting. I started
getting a lot of consulting business.
You know, 2020, I also sort of I was
again crashing out. Didn't know what I
wanted to do. So, I uh packed everything
up or sort of I I I took my truck, I
bought a tent that fits on the back of
the tent, truck, um, bought a air
mattress, whatever, and would like and
drove around all these national parks
all around America. And so, like two or
three or four days of the week, I'd stay
in a random motel where I negotiated the
price to be like $30 a night for a room.
And I was work on something else stuff.
And then the weekends I'd read books and
oftentimes read textbooks um while in
some random national park or hiking and
listen to audiobooks um about
semiconductors about AI about all the
things that I cared a lot about and got
way more educated over these six months
where I'm just like going to every
national park. Um and the whole time I
was I was alone the whole time I was
posting blogs. Um everyone was like DD
what the are you doing
&gt;&gt; pre-larink or the very early days of
Starling?
&gt;&gt; Pre-star link pre-tar link. Um yeah, so
it was like very much like what are you
doing? Um I travel around Latam again
like for for a year initially with my
friend and then with my ex you know for
you know about a year and then I go then
22 23 24 end of 21 22 23 and 24 I'm
completely I'm still completely homeless
since mid2020 right um but I'm traveling
around to every conference in the world.
I go to 40 plus conferences a year no
matter where in the supply chain it is.
I'm like oh that looks interesting. I
guess I'll go to that. And I'm like I
went to one conference like wow this is
amazing. you get to talk to the experts
and they just like they they're they
they're going to talk to you because and
then you're so excited and in the case
of semiconductors everyone's a boomer so
it's like it's great to like you know
they're like they don't see young people
who are like excited about it so they're
really happy to tell stuff and so you
just have to ask on this was there like
a part of the supply chain or one of
these conferences that you know
particularly changed your view of the
semi-world or that you felt then or feel
now is particularly underrated. I think
I think the trade shows like r and
conferences range really widely. Um
obviously some of the you know the ones
I have the most fun at you know include
NERPS. Why why is that? Because it's
20,000 AI researchers and they're
generally in my distribution of age
range. So it's like a lot of fun but
they're also like leading AI researchers
and it's a lot of fun and lot you learn
a lot. Um there's also a lot of parties
and then it ranges all the way to like
you know there's random chemical
conference in Japan where it's 300
Japanese dudes. It's like 20 guys from
ASML, 20 guys from TSMC, 20 guys from
Intel, and those are the only people who
speak English. Uh, everyone else speaks
only Japanese, and you're like, h, I
guess they're still pretty interesting
and fun. I think I think like one thing
that I have like a skill set of is like
I'm able to bond with anyone regardless
of their background and like who they
are. I'm able to talk to them, find
something interesting to talk about.
Oftentimes, it's the tech stuff, but,
you know, it's it's and so I think like
the most interesting conferences are
oftentimes like, you know, the really
big ones because that's where the
biggest stuff is happening. Um but I
think the niches that are really really
exciting is like you know SPIE um so
there's IE which is international
electrical engineering something um and
there's SPI which is another ecosystem.
SPIE conferences are super super deep in
details. Every single one that I went
to, especially like SPI advanced
lithography or SPI photo mask, I went to
them the first time I didn't even
understand 90% of what I heard. And then
I read red, red, red, I had made some
context, of course, and then next time I
went, I understood like half of what I
went to. Third time I went, I understood
like 75% of what I went to. Even now, I
went and I was like, I still don't
understand everything that's going on.
Whereas like you go to like Nurips, you
know, a couple times you can understand,
okay, what's neurosymbolic reasoning?
Okay, what's this? What's that? like you
can you can kind of get a mapping of
what everything is pretty quickly but
some parts of the supply chain are so
arcane and so deep and so technical. It
takes a lot of times for you to even
understand what's happening in and you
know on everything right um for every
research paper doesn't necessarily mean
you didn't you know you go to a
conference for a few reasons right you
understand the research you understand
but like it's all the research that's
being published but what you really care
about is understanding how does that
research intersection intersect with
technology also how does that research
differ from what's there today and none
of these research papers tell you what's
happening today but then you just ask
people and you you build contacts and
you learn and then you like learn about
the supply chain and oh this company
supplies this company even though it's
not publicly stated anywhere or like you
know you learn that the the this
chemical is like cost about this much
and a tool uses about this much and you
&gt;&gt; hear you hear the horror stories of like
this chemical had a shortage and it
totally threw off this part of the
supply chain and then it turns out
there's only three companies in the
world that make that chemical and it's
like
&gt;&gt; my favorite one is I learned uh a
Japanese guy at that specific Japanese
uh conference that I went to where no
almost no one spoke English in very
broken English he told me about how uh
his father worked in this in in in this
industry in the 1980s that the the only
factory in the world that built this
chemical uh burned down and that caused
memory prices to like double or triple
and I was like wow not too different
from today
&gt;&gt; not not not at all
&gt;&gt; crazy
&gt;&gt; um
&gt;&gt; inference going to be the biggest market
on earth biggest market beyond earth
agree or disagree
&gt;&gt; um I mean obviously use of tokens is
going to be the biggest market um and
the value that's created from tokens is
going to be the biggest market but I
think tokconomics sort of the use of
tokens adoption of AI sort of is the
most important thing that's happening
and inference whether it's open models
or closed models will be like one of the
biggest markets in the world much bigger
than oil I think much bigger than like
you know many other parts like inference
of AI will be you know many percentage
points of the GDP yeah right
&gt;&gt; what you've done with inference X I
think is you know industry standard
maybe say a word on why you started it
what it does and you know what do people
misunderstand about uh performance
benchmarking on inference
&gt;&gt; yeah So, so to zoom back, right, like
semi analysis, uh, we do a lot of stuff
that's like, you know, a lot of it is
like research for institutional clients
and and our subscription versus
products, but a lot of it is also like,
hey, you know, this would just be cool
to figure out. Let's figure out how to
figure it out and just post it publicly.
And that gets, you know, more and more
scale. And so we've done this with a lot
of GPU benchmarking and testing and
training performance and inference
performance, but you know, ultimately we
saw like inference benchmarking was like
point in time. you know, you test it and
you take some time, you release it and
it's like slow and arcane and out
outdated because models change all the
time. Every I feel like every week
there's a new model whether it's a
Chinese model or you know today mythos
5, Fable dropped and new models are
coming out all the time. Um on the
software layer uh PyTorch, VLM, SG lang
um new drivers, new new something drops,
you know, in fact the update cycle for
most of these libraries is twice a week.
So you basically have the software
updating all the time and therefore
performance changing. Um you know new
inference optimizations are coming out
and those get updated and and so I feel
like it's a relentless breakthrough
after breakthrough after breakthrough
that keeps driving efficiency and cost
down which is why we've seen you know
model cost drop for equivalent quality
by like 60x a year. It's incredible. Um
but to stay on top of that you can't
have point in time benchmarking. You
need to have benchmarks be living and
breathing i.e. you know constantly
running on the latest hardware on the
latest models. And so we embarked on a
project and we got a lot of buyin from
the ecosystem. This was only possible
because we had you know enough aura with
some of the ecosystem where we're able
to get coreweave and cruso and nebus and
Oracle and Microsoft and Amazon and
Google and OpenAI to contribute to us um
compute and then we were able to work
with SG Lang and VLM and now Radix Arc
and InRact uh which are the private
companies who are sort of leading those
efforts um the open source efforts um to
collaborate with us. We're able to get
Nvidia and AMD and Google and Amazon now
because we're adding TPUs and trrenium
uh to collaborate. Now we've got all
these people collaborating. We've got
over $50 million of hardware uh donated
to us. Um once we launch TPUs and
trainum it actually should be over
$und00 million of hardware. Um you know
maybe about like 15 different chip types
all running these benchmarks every
single day on all the latest model,
right? the best model from Moonshot, the
best model from Alibaba, the best model
from um there's about five different
Chinese models, the best open source
models, the best Chinese labs there. We
run benchmarks on their models every day
and then also the best US open source
models um GPTOSS, Neotron, etc. So we're
running these benchmarks every day um in
an automated fashion and they run on
these these servers that are dedicated
to us for inference benchmarking and we
sweep across so many different
configurations and optimization types
and then what it creates is and all the
results are public and all the
configurations are public. So now we
have the paralo optimal curve because a
lot of you know times when people are
comparing inference performance they're
like taking a suboptimal curve or point
for someone else and comparing it to
their optimal one. And it's like, well,
yeah, I can make I can I can stick, you
know, if I drove a Porsche versus like
some some race car driver, obviously I'd
drive it slower. The same thing with
inference benchmarking. And so what we
did is we created open- source uh
basically containers for the optimal
points across every uh point on the
interactivity, i.e. how fast is it
responding to me versus you know batch
size, i.e. how many users am I
simultaneously serving curve? And so now
anyone who wants the optimal point can
just go to inference X download it and
run that as the optimal point and they
can check every day if they want or they
can even autod download the most optimal
point for that model and and their
inference performance will be near peak.
Um
&gt;&gt; is that curve like the most important
curve in your opinion? The throughput
interactivity curve is the most
important one.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I think I think um most things in
hardware infrastructure uh model
application layer everything is
downstream of that curve, right? Is it
is it something that needs to be super
super fast, super low latency? Um, and I
don't really care about the cost, so I
make batch size very low and I use
techniques like speculative decoding or
multi-token prediction heavily and and
there's so many, you know, possible
techniques there. Or is it something
where actually I'm batch processing a
ton of documents and I don't really care
about all these things. I don't use
these techniques that actually are worse
on cost efficiency but help you with
speed for an individual user because I
just want to pack a bunch of users. I
don't care if the document takes all
night to process, right? Um, and right
now the way we treat AI infrastructures,
it's like one-sizefits-all. But over
time, we're going to get to the point
where, you know, there's stuff where you
you have batch workloads or, you know,
you need instant response and there's
there's the whole curve that's going to
matter for uh users. And so we see this
with entropic, right? Cloud code fast
mode cost way more than regular mode.
Um, and same with open eyes priority Q
thing. Um,
&gt;&gt; sorry, dumb question. How does cost
factor into the chart? So if if I let's
say imaginary example, I have 100 I have
a batch size of 100,
&gt;&gt; okay?
&gt;&gt; And I can do 10 tokens per second per
user. So in total I'm doing a thousand
tokens per second uh off of that one
piece of compute. That's one side of the
curve. Super slow, 10 tokens per second.
Um you know, other side is I have uh uh
500 tokens per second, but I only have
one user. And so maybe 250 tokens per
second, one user. And then there's
points on the middle that are more fraal
optimal, right? the average person
actually wants like 50 or 100 tokens a
second and maybe you know the this the
the number of users I can batch
together. So the curve is okay a
thousand tokens total uh per second or
250 tokens total per second depending on
how many users I batch and there's a
curve in the middle and so ultimately
some workloads will actually want the 4x
cost decrease because the same unit of
hardware can do a th000 versus 250 and
some users I'll pay 4x more because I
don't care about the price I care about
time because the person using the tokens
is expensive or the feedback loop that I
have here is expense is is expensive. If
you had to guess, you choose the time
frame 10 years or 15 years. What percent
of inference compete do you think will
happen in space?
&gt;&gt; Can be 0% 50%
&gt;&gt; Sean 99% like
&gt;&gt; this is a tough one. Um you choose the
time frame like 10 whatever time frame
and you're
&gt;&gt; so I think I think the non- consensus or
at least against SpaceX thing, you know,
I love SpaceX by the way and I totally
would buy the IPO if I could buy stocks.
Um
&gt;&gt; not investment.
&gt;&gt; Not investment advice. Thank you. Thank
you. not invested ice um from either um
I don't think that space data centers
will really matter in the next um you
know 3 to 5 years um with that said I
think in you know 20 years I think the
vast majority of compute will be going
in space um and so the real real factor
there is sort of you know what's the
cost it's the time frame it's the cost
of building power on terrestrial land
and how much power you going to be able
to do on terrestrial land and I think
obviously my views of where inference
you know you know how many gigawatts or
terowatts are devoted to inference is
it's a crazy curve for me personally
&gt;&gt; what's your forecast how many gigawatts
or
&gt;&gt; um yeah I think I think by you know 2030
just open anthropic we'll have over 100
gigawatts combined um and then you'll
add you know meta and Google and you
know so on and so on so forth it's it's
a humongous amount of compute that will
be dedicated to inference um and by like
2040 it'll be terowatts right um the the
curve of like productivity that we're
going to get and so you know inference
deployments is going to be huge And so
if you look at like 2040, I think like
you know probably more than half of the
incremental compute will be going in
space. But if you look at 2030, I think
it's sub 1%.
&gt;&gt; Do you think intelligence per watt has
been increasing? Uh and then it seems
like there's still a giant gap between
where we are intelligence per watt
versus like human biology and so like if
we are do you think we are to close that
gap? And if so, where is that game going
to come from?
&gt;&gt; Yeah, I think I think it often depends
on what you're doing too, right? Like a
TI84 is way more intelligence per watt
in terms of doing math than us and it's
like 30 years old, right? Obviously this
is like a dumb dumb you know sort of
&gt;&gt; general intelligence.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. But general intelligence wise um
so one of the things inference X does is
we also measure the power and cost of
all of these this hardware. And so we
offer not just you know throughput
versus interactivity we offer cost
versus interactivity. We offer power
versus interactivity. And so as far as
has you know intelligence per watt been
increasing? Um I mentioned you know it's
been a 60x cost decrease for same
benchmark level. Um we've also seen the
same on on uh intelligence per watt. Um
it's not been it's not been exactly 60x.
It's been closer to like 40x. Uh some of
the efficiencies are nonp power ways,
but there's been a humongous improvement
in in intelligence per watt on an annual
basis at least so far this year, last
year, year before, year before. And I
expect that to continue as far as where
we are from the human brain. We're we're
many orders of magnitude away.
Thankfully, doesn't really matter. We
can devote a lot of power to computers.
Much easier to power computers than
human brains. Like you know, we have
sickness, disease, and like food
preferences. sleep.
&gt;&gt; Uh yeah, exactly.
&gt;&gt; Let me just ask one more question on the
like on the general theme in my opinion
in terms of like you know intelligence
per watt or intelligence per
per dollar like any any of these
metrics. I think there's kind of three
levels of input. You can get hardware
improvements that are where the hardware
is more efficient. You can get lowlevel
systems optimizations like kernel level
you know improvements matri
multiplication libraries you know things
like that or you can get like highlevel
like model level algorithmic
improvements you know at the highest
level. It see like to me it seems like
in the last three years most of the
gains have come from hardware level and
you know and some from the model level
like do you think that that is what do
you agree with that do you think that's
what look like in the future do like do
you think there's a bunch of juice to
squeeze in a say like kernel level like
&gt;&gt; yeah Sean I completely disagree with you
by the way great great that's why I'm
asking this question
&gt;&gt; um okay so I I think you know one way is
to look at as these three different
layers Um and in that sense like okay
from hopper to blackwell which is all
we've had over the last three years
roughly 30x improvement on deepseeek on
the most optimized deployment which is
you know you can see on inference
there's about a 30x improvement but you
know over the last three years um we've
had way more improvement intelligence
per watt a lot of that coming from the
model layer right if you look back three
years it's GPD4 now it's like you know
you know maybe like Quen one of the
smaller Quen models that's like you know
27B parameters total and like 2 billion
active is like way better. Um, and so
you've got this huge improvement on
model layer, you've got this pretty
sizable improvement on hardware, but
it's that co-design layer and I think
that's that's what's important, right?
If you look at the architecture of, you
know, any of these models, but deepseek
is the most famous one at least, uh,
that's public and people have seen.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, Deepseek got huge efficiency gains
from like co-op optimization or kernel
level optimizing memory.
&gt;&gt; Yes, I I think it's it's it's like
kernels of course, but it's actually you
build the hardware architecture for the
chip. So if you look at the shapes of
all the experts in in DeepSeek, uh V3,
they were all optimized for Hopper. And
if you look at for V4, they're optimized
for Blackwell and Huawei's chip. And
what's interesting is despite the fact
that TPUs are objectively an amazing
chip, you know, and and they run all of
deep mind and they do all the training
uh for anthropic as well on the
pre-training side at least. TPUs suck at
running deepseeek, but they are really
really great at running other kinds of
models that don't run well on NVIDIA.
there is some level of such deep
optimization that has been done um
whether it be shapes uh network IO uh
patterns you know how you do the
collectives how you do um things around
you know the the arithmetic intensity of
the attention mechanism all these
different things are co-optimized
between the model and the and the and
the hardware and the infrasoftware in
between and it's it's hard to say you
can disentangle the games
&gt;&gt; do you think that like my understanding
is that like China has done this a lot
better than the west the last few years
like in the deep sea was one of the
first models to really like do this.
&gt;&gt; I don't necessarily think so. think it's
more so that the west doesn't tell
people what they do right like open eye
didn't tell people that you know GP40
was uh how sparse it was what the shape
size was all these things but GP40 is
roughly the same size slightly smaller
than deepseeek v3 and 40 came out you
know a little bit earlier right if I
recall correctly
&gt;&gt; so is your is your view that like all
three of these things have been
happening simultaneously at like roughly
the same rate and the most the biggest
gains are when you just co-optimize
I would say I would say there's been
more gains on the model layer than on
that co-op than than on the sort of
software infrastructure layer and the
hardware layer. Um, but there's been
innovations on every layer and and and
really the biggest gain and the beauty
of the best labs is when they
co-optimize all three, you know, and and
and that's what like you know when
Enthropic is is, you know, even though
they used many different kinds of
hardware, they don't really inference
too much on TPUs. They mostly train on
TPUs. um and and they inference a lot on
cranium and GPUs and GPU is more a jack
of all trades but they've optimized
their hardware they're optimized their
model they've optimized everything so
they can do that whereas open AI they're
you know prior models were optimized for
hopper more now they're more optimized
for blackwell and you know you you step
forward through time these these um
these labs and and and the same with
Google right they've they've they've
optimized you know Gemini 2 was really
optimized for the TPU uh v uh v6e or tp
Gemini 3 was and then Gemini
uh you know the next Gemini that's
coming out is really optimized for TPV7.
Um and so sort of like a lot of these
things are being co-optimized and
actually when you pull that model and
put it run it on the old hardware it's
really not that great. Um and so I think
a lot of this co-optimization is is the
most important thing. It's called
software hardware co-design and that's
what's like really exciting about like
you know sort of what what you know I
think my day-to-day is like you know
great you get to look at one layer
there's all these innovations happening
here there's all these innovations
happening on every layer. The real
breakthrough innovation is when you
leaprog a few layers, you co-optimize
and co-design them, and now all of a
sudden you've you've taken what could
have been a 2x here, 2x here, 2x here,
and instead of being multiplicative to
8x, it's actually 100x because you've
optimized across all three layers. And
so that's what's really exciting about
sort of like what you see at the labs,
which you see at like a company like
Nvidia who's not co-optimizing on the
model layer per per se, but a little bit
from the model layer all the way
downstream to, you know, silicon. Or you
look at a company like TSMC, they're
co-optimizing not just, you know,
fabrication, but all the way from the
components and the consumables and the
tools all the way upstream to what the
designs, their chips are, the customers
are telling them is this co-optimization
across many layers of the abstraction
stack.
&gt;&gt; There will always be bottlenecks
somewhere in that optimization though
that are like lagging behind and then
need to get pulled forward,
&gt;&gt; you know,
&gt;&gt; and band-aids to toact.
If you had to predict like what are at
any level of the stack, it can be
literally anywhere. What are some of the
bottlenecks you're most like you're kind
of tracking most acutely the next year?
And not necessarily in the supply chain,
not in like scale, but in terms of the
actual um and it can it can be in the
supply chain too, but just like you
know, is it
memory improvements? Is it is it that
like just like scaling? So memory memory
is memory is an easy one that everyone's
talked about, but I'm not going to talk
about from a supply chain angle. I'm
talking about from a technology angle,
right? Memory um capacity and bandwidth
have been improving very slowly. The NAN
cell was invented like 25 years ago. The
DM cell was invented like 40 years ago
and there's been no major breakthrough
in in cell like you know how what a NAND
cell is. Obviously NAND is like a very
simple gate or DAM cell. There there is
stuff that could come down the pipeline
that could be hugely innovative. But
even over the last, you know, five
years, all we've really done is make the
HBM, you know, more stacks, faster, but
actually there's like new innovations
coming in the next few years where
instead of, you know, stacking the HPM
separately from the chip, you stack the
memory directly on the chip and that
makes your bandwidth explode. Um, and so
there's interesting companies in that
space and interesting PC's that
companies are trying to do there. I
think like memory bandwidth is one of
the biggest. Another one is um for the
history of like silicon basically for
the last two decades at least you know
how many watts a chip is can be easily
predicted just by looking at it for for
a data center or desktop chip it it
peaks up at one watt per millimeter
squared and so if a chip is 100 millime
squared generally the power consumption
is around 100 or a little bit less um
and if you look at the newest Nvidia
silicon the newest TPU silicon it's
still on that range of one watt per
millimeter squared so you know chips are
now getting to you know, 1400 watts.
Next generation is 2,000 watts for
Nvidia. Um, with Reuben and such. Uh,
and and you move forward to Reuben
Ultra, it's going to be like 4,000 watts
or something like that. But really,
there's increasing the amount of
silicon. What's exciting is we're now
finally doing things and and it's in
development right now where you actually
can pump the amount of power into the
silicon uh to be way more than one watt
per millimeter squared. And now that all
of a sudden means you need less silicon.
Obviously, it's running at higher power.
It's less efficient in some cases, but
you reduce the amount of silicon and
you're able to like
&gt;&gt; like over thermal issues,
&gt;&gt; thermal issues. Um there's uh
interference of like electrical
interference issues. There's all sorts
of different issues uh that crop up and
that's why it's a hard engineering
problem. That's why we've stuck at about
one. But what's exciting is the world is
trying to change these things. I think
interesting like in a different part of
the supply chain it's sort of like you
know people people will talk about like
energy is hard and you know we have
energy bottlenecks and it's like yeah
but there's actually like very simple
solutions you know one could think of
right um take the millions of diesel
engines for trucks that the US has the
capacity to make um you can very
trivially convert them to be using for
gas uh in the assembly line and then
stick them up to a electrical motor like
back driving it so the electrical motor
generates electricity rather than the
electrical motor causing the the
rotation of the wheel, for example, but
doing it the opposite direction. And now
you've generated electricity by pumping
gas into something that us can make
millions of. Um, and then, okay, well,
that sounds like a pain in the ass to uh
service, right? Because now you have to
have hundreds of these on a data center
site. Well, actually, you can just pull
people out of car mechanic shops and
have them run around and repair truck
engines. Actually, it's actually pretty
trivial to not I don't want to say it's
trivial, I couldn't do it. Um
&gt;&gt; I think you're making a really good
point which is that like because the
west wasn't really thinking about semic
even hardware more broadly the last 20
30 years we didn't have like much
innovation we'd have the best minds like
thinking about how do you improve these
&gt;&gt; why why would you why would you want to
go work in hardware when you can uh make
ads to ads
&gt;&gt; yeah exactly
&gt;&gt; um okay I'm dying to ask Nvidia versus
TPU what are your thoughts
&gt;&gt; um I think I think like everyone wants
to pick one or the other for this, but
it's really like a function of like
look, you know, you look two years from
now, Google's going to make 10 plus
million TPUs and through their supply
chain and Nvidia is going to make, you
know, many more million tens of millions
of GPUs and both are going to be 100
plus billion dollar, you know, well,
Google's going to be 100 plus billion
dollars, you know, of TPU created a year
and and Nvidia will be, you know, 500
plus or, you know, whatever. I'm not
making a specific estimate.
&gt;&gt; This is not revenue forecast. This is
just a thought experiment.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Or research.
&gt;&gt; You've been media trans.
&gt;&gt; Absolutely. you know, getting ready for
the SpaceX idea.
&gt;&gt; Um, are you guys big in SpaceX? Okay, so
that makes sense. Um,
&gt;&gt; we're very lucky to be very large
investors.
&gt;&gt; Awesome. Awesome. Um, so I would say um
the the case of sort of like Google TPUs
versus uh Nvidia GPUs, they both have
like points that are really like in
their favor, right? You know, Nvidia
will be like, "Oh, well, we have
switches and we're general purpose." And
and TPUs will be like, "Well, we're more
optimized. actually more energy
efficient and our network is actually
more um optimized for certain types of
network architectures. And so you have
like these counterpoints that both would
really uh get into and you know I could
with a straight face argue with you like
that GPUs are way better than TPUs or
TPUs are way better than GPUs but it
comes down to hardware software
codeesign. So actually the way OpenAI's
models are headed, it would be a
terrible decision for them to use TPUs
potentially. And the way that Enthropic
and Google's uh models are headed, it's
actually a terrible decision potentially
for them to train with GPUs. I mean,
it'd be fun to what's the what's the
fundamental difference there?
&gt;&gt; There's various things, right? Like the
size of the matrix multiply unit is
different as a as a very simple thing.
And therefore, the shape of the matrix
multiply you do, the attention mechanism
you use, uh the way that attention
mechanism is structured, the way the
experts are structured. So you think so
open AI and anthropic are converging the
very different model architectures. I
think they're I think they have quite
different model architectures. In fact,
um, you know, open eyes are much more
sparse, um, and that has benefits. And
then anthropics are, you know, they're
still sparse, but more dense in general,
and and that has different benefits. And
there's many other things, right? The
network topology, right? Nvidia, all of
their chips are connected to switches,
NVLink switches. For Google, they have
no switch. Um, but what they've done is
they've been able to, you know, Nvidia,
the NVLink can only connect 72 GPUs. for
Google, their ICI can connect 8,000
chips at super high bandwidth, but you
have to pass through other chips to get
there because there's no switch. And so
there's like there's trade-offs there.
There's positives and negatives and that
influences the model architecture. It's
not necessarily that you should uh you
know claim one is better than the other
because at the end of the day, how do
you say that this is better than that
when you can't measure them in isolation
because it also extends up to the model
layer, right? Um
&gt;&gt; but I remember for a long time thinking
you know one the programmability of
Nvidia and just CUDA as as such a big
moat. It seems to me that narrative has
kind of changed at least in my mind for
the last three six months like model
companies no longer care about if we
have to write custom kernels for you
know this other chip so be it. We'll
work with four or five chips if we have
to. Um Claude and Codeex are actually
quite good at doing a lot of that
optimization work. And so it seems like
some of the and then and then it's you
know it's not like there's 10,000 model
companies that are each you know each
need programmability. There's on the
order of tens maybe model companies and
so it seems to me that like if you the
fundamental premise of like tens of
thousands of big customers that need
CUDA compatibility like it seems that
kind of thesis is is changing in the
last
&gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean I mean certainly the CUDA
mode and software remote is at least
partially uh disentangled because you
know models are just great at coding and
all software gets commoditized in that
case. I do think there is some level of
like open source and you know what
people call the CUDA mode is not
actually anything to do with CUDA but
it's like the fact that DeepSeek Kimmy
and and Zippui and and Alibaba and Tens
all these all these companies Xiaomi had
an awesome model recently their models
are co-designed for GPUs and therefore
if I want to run them on TPUs actually
in some cases they don't run really well
on TPUs now Google just has to create
their own open source model ecosystem or
open source models themselves so they
have the Gemma models and and so you end
up with like well that's not really CUDA
as a moat it's that the downstream
product is more optimized for Nvidia and
in these cases these companies are just
open sourcing them or like Neotron is
just open sourcing it and then the users
of it for example the open you know the
inference uh API providers the RL
companies that are trying to take open
models and customize them for company's
business use cases all these different
companies are downstream of the fact
that like okay well I guess I need to
use Nvidia because the ecosystem uses
Nvidia even though I don't partic
particularly care about writing CUDA
kernels because the models are great at
that, but it's like the shape of like
well this expert the the demod is this
and you know the hidden dimension blah
blah blah is this right and and so
therefore it's better to run on Nvidia
GPUs than it is on TPUs and vice versa
right if Google were to actually open
source really good models you know this
would be the same thing right people
would take their models and they'd be
like oh wow these don't run that well on
Nvidia GPUs um I should actually just
rent TPUs or buy TPUs and do it on there
for small teams you're going to want to
use all the open source software like
VLM MSG laying um pietorch all that
stuff but the big labs they don't
necessarily need to use all that right
open I forked PyTorch long ago and you
know anthropic and all these other
people don't necessarily rely heavily on
the open- source implementation of you
know these things they forked things or
built it on their own already and so
they don't need to rely on the open
source and therefore now it's more like
you know I'll choose the best hardware
and I'll co-design my model and
infrastructure software through and
through for that hardware uh that is the
best and most costefficient
&gt;&gt; and you know I'll have AI help me write
all that software.
&gt;&gt; What do you think of Cerebrus?
&gt;&gt; I think Cerebrus is a really innovative
company. Um I I think in in some spots
of the market they're really really
good. Um very fast inference. I think
that's a big market. Uh we use fast mode
almost exclusively at semi analysis. Um
&gt;&gt; by the way I love how disciplined you've
been about accounting for I don't know
if that was one exhibit you did or if
you do it consistently but accounting
for the dollar spent and the ROI on each
task.
&gt;&gt; Awesome analysis.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. We we we uh we do it pretty
diligently and so thank you. That was
the dark GDP article that we wrote. Um
and so and and also like track
everyone's token spend by day and if
someone's like spiked up I'm like what
did you do? It's like okay thank you for
telling me that that seems worth it.
Cool. On with my day. I think fast mode
is obviously worth a lot for high-end
tasks, right? I could just see so many
different use cases where you know super
fast tokens are worth it. I can also see
the flip side where there's a lot of use
cases where super fast tokens aren't
needed and and therefore uh the market
won't pay for them and they'll use GPUs
and TPUs instead. I think the big risk
for Cerebrus is I mostly think the best
models are the ones that you want to use
fast mode on and small models you
necessarily might not use fast mode on.
I could see that being wrong with you
know financial markets maybe or
something like that like a Jane Street
high frequency trading or something like
that um or medium frequency trading. Um
but ultimately you know running really
large models at really long context is
very difficult on SRAMM based chips like
Cerebras like Grock and so now it all of
a sudden is like you know what happens
then if like the models get too big
right if open's model is not you know on
the order of uh you know hundreds of
billions parameters or you know low
trillion parameters but it's actually 10
plus trillion parameters now all of a
sudden I don't think that that will fit
on cerebrus right and then if that
doesn't with a long context length right
if you have a million context length now
that makes it really difficult to
justify
you know, and and as all so far we've
seen the bulk of revenue and usage at
the labs be on their best model. Even
when the model price has gone up, we've
seen that. Um there's some data that
shows that even though Fable just
released today, they've had incredible
amounts of people switch to Fable and
Mythos, sort of that next tier model,
even though it's way more expensive. And
so um
&gt;&gt; is that and that's volume by dollars
totally. But was that volume by tokens?
&gt;&gt; Well, I guess who cares about volume by
tokens? It's about the dollars.
&gt;&gt; Fair enough.
&gt;&gt; Right. If I don't care that there's, you
know, uh, you know, I don't know,
200,000 Mini Coopers or Toyota Camry
sold if if, uh, you know, I don't know,
Ford50s are 5x ASP and they sell only
half as much.
&gt;&gt; Okay. Right.
&gt;&gt; And then and and therefore the most
lucrative market is pickup trucks in
America. Right. Mostly being facicious,
but like
&gt;&gt; I do think this is one of the things
that you've done so well and
differentiates you from almost everyone
else is that you you care so much about
the economics in addition to the
technology. And I think very few people
bridged those two thing things well. And
so
&gt;&gt; I think I think it's really fun inside
of semi analysis because we have 90
people and like a big chunk of them are
technologist engineers across the whole
supply chain. Um and then a big chunk is
people who are formerly at hedge funds
and you see these arguments like people
are like oh well that doesn't matter and
it's like then someone's like well but
cost and then someone the engineers like
no no but this technology is the
coolest. You see this you see this
organically like fight it out. Um and
and were pretty informal and you know
given the fact that I was a for
moderator is you can imagine what the
the
enjoying it
&gt;&gt; you don't wrestle with a pig because a
pig enjoys it.
&gt;&gt; Exactly. Just on this topic before going
to the next question. Are there like
trigger topics in semis for you? You
know like if someone's like which is
like such a meme you think this person
must be a like if you know if
it's like oh you like memory is the
bottleneck. I mean it's true but like um
I think I think moreover the one that
really gets me is people are like AI has
no ROI
&gt;&gt; infuriates me right like there's like
what's the ROI or like denying model
progress right there's these people that
are like models aren't getting better
they're not reasoning they can't think
they're going to deadend and plateau and
it's like bro the line has been up and
to the right in terms of capabilities
this entire time and they're like look
this benchmark didn't improve that's cuz
it said 90%
look at the new benchmark you saturated
now they're skyrocketing, right? It's
like I think that's more so the issue
and challenge. Like I think semis are
really complex and I don't fault people
for um lacking like understanding of it.
Like I learn stuff every day about the
semiconductor supply chain from people
and I've been studying it for you know
arguably 18 years since I started
moderating the forums when I was 12
right like you know arguably been
studying it for that long but even then
like and it's like live breathed and
that's all I care about but there's so
many layers of the abstraction stack
it's like like I learned about a new
chemical that does like a hundred
million dollars of sales like yesterday
and I'm like whoa didn't know this one
existed and what process it did and it's
like but it's like you know you learn
about things all the It's like okay
hundred billion dollar sales in a you
know couple hundred billion dollar
industry is whatever but like you know
it's like
&gt;&gt; but it's essential
&gt;&gt; it's essential and it's like actually
every chip requires it. It's like wow I
guess there are a thousand process steps
and you know it's like oh yeah you like
semiconductors name every process step.
It's like no come on. What what I think
is the most funny is when people have
all the facts in front of them and then
they get the conclusion completely
wrong. Um and that's
&gt;&gt; that happens in our job all the time
too.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean, I can't I I get I I think
my attitude is not to be mad that you do
that. It's to do it as fast as possible.
&gt;&gt; I think the industry because it's so
it's just like AI is the most important
thing in the world right now and there's
so many near-term bottlenecks. We talk a
lot about the near-term. Are there
longer term things that you're really
excited about? Like say on a 10-year
time frame? We talked about orbital data
centers, but like like siliconics, you
think they're underrated or overrated on
a 10-year time frame? Are there other
things that on a 10-year time frame?
Yeah, I mean I think on SP I think space
is like super crazy awesome in the
10-year time frame that I'm you know for
space data centers and all these sort of
mining asteroids and all these things
which is you know super excited about
the vision of SpaceX right um again not
investment advice before you hop in um I
think I think on the semiconductor side
tremendous market movements and
tremendous like things can happen just
when like things happen one year later
or sooner and so that's all like
technology that like you know in terms
of like co-ackage optics like well like
everyone knows it's going to happen by
the end of the decade the the debate is
like 27 7 28 29 2030 but some point
along there it's going to happen. I
think the more interesting thing is like
there's companies like um I did you guys
invest in Navian Ral's company?
&gt;&gt; We did.
&gt;&gt; Okay. Yeah. So I think like he's trying
to innovate on like the silicon layer on
the software abstraction layer and the
model layer simultaneously and he fully
understands that it's not a like a you
know we're going to do this in a few
years.
&gt;&gt; It's not a two-year time frame.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. It's not a few year time frame.
It's a long-term bet. Um, and like stuff
like that is like, okay, we're going to
bring like potentially like analog
compute with energy based models and
like all this crazy all at once.
It's like that's exciting. Probably
won't work, but you know, that's
exciting and I I like really look
forward to
&gt;&gt; definitely won't work quickly.
&gt;&gt; Yeah, definitely won't work quickly is
what I should say. I believe in Deaveen
and like, you know, I I I met him very,
you know, I think he's one of the first
people I met in the industry um, funnily
enough, like in 2020 or 2021. Um,
actually 2020. Yeah. It says something
about him. I think he's someone in my
experience. He's always trying to
&gt;&gt; I baited him on the internet. I baited
him on the internet. That's
&gt;&gt; He's always trying to help the younger
generation. He's trying to identify
talent. And
&gt;&gt; he was also so ahead of his time with
Mosaic. I remember getting pitched.
&gt;&gt; No, it was 2019. I was still I was still
anonymous then actually. I I baited him
on the internet and he started replying
and then I just took it to DMs and then
took it to a call and like that was the
first person who's like really important
that I talked to in the entire
semiconductor industry. funny.
&gt;&gt; Um, but yeah, sorry to interrupt.
&gt;&gt; That's funny. What do you think is the
end state of the ecosystem? Like do you
think every lab, every hyperscaler just
has its own chips? Like train seems like
it's now working, right? So do you think
we end up with every lab, every
hyperscaler has it own chips at least
for inference and then maybe for
training you go to Nvidia or whoever or
what do you think is the end state?
&gt;&gt; I think everyone will try and stop
trying. I think ultimately um you know
supply chains matter. what technology
you can bring in matters and more and
more as the industry gets bigger supply
chain diversification happens. Um you
know right now everyone's chip more or
less looks the same. It's a big logic
compute die in the center and there's
some HBM on the right and left and on
the top and bottom top side is
networking and then the bottom side is
PCIe and other IO. Um and that is the
exact same structure for tranium TPU
Nvidia chips. Um and most of the
startups um not Grock and Fris are doing
weird but that's cool you know um I
think like as you step forward we're
going to get more bifurcation of
hardware architecture and model
architecture and therefore people are
going to co-optimize them and you know
some of them will end up in local
minimas right you know as we're you know
if this is like gradation gradient
descent like people are like trying to
go to the most optimized solution some
people will race to a local minima and
then the question is like how do you
leap how do you scoot back over to like
the absolute minima and some to some
extent like a general more Nvidia will
always be more general purpose than
anyone else's chip in general um at
least on a parallel AI compute basis
because they have so many customers who
care about different things who will
always give them feedback in the design
you know the minima will always be
better than them but is that minima a
local minima like is is the TPU or
tranium or grock or cerebras or
whoever's design
optimized awesomely for here but in the
end state actually you got to go over
here and so they're the wrong
&gt;&gt; um and Maybe they make a great time,
they're great for a little bit of time,
but then they end up being wrong. It's
like that's the real question. Um, and
so I think I think there will be a big
market for general purpose AI compute.
Um, because you talk to people at labs,
they don't even know what architecture
they're going to be doing in a year.
Like, right, like they literally don't
know what architecture they're going to
be doing in a year. They have bets. They
have many research bets and and that's
this exciting thing, but they don't know
where where it's going. generally they
like know what hardware they have and
they're trying to co-optimize but
ultimately like if a new breakthrough
happens on model architecture it's like
just replace the tension mechanism with
something else right who knows or you
know all of a sudden you know something
happens the best hardware will change
and therefore like are people going to
make fiveyear investments on hardware
solely on you know an an asich that is
more specialized or are they going to do
so they're going to have some bucket of
more general purpose compute and so you
see this with like Google's paying $11
an hour per GPU to XAI for G for GPUs,
right? Like that's insane, right? It's a
very high amount of uh obviously compute
is limited and and so on and so forth,
but it's like very like insane, but at
the same, you know, despite the fact
that they have TPUs and so there's like
some questions there like why do they do
that? Um Google actually has three
different design programs for TPUs.
They're making a TPU with Broadcom.
That's a different architecture than the
TPU with MediaTek. That's a different
TPU than the architecture that is, you
know, I won't disclose, you know, by
research. Um but, you know, they're
they're making different architectures.
It's not just like, oh, they're making
TPUs with a couple vendors. It's the
same architecture. It's different
architectures. And the third one is a
very different architecture from the
first two. And so, I think people
recognize that the local minima can
happen. And therefore, um, I think
everyone will have their own ASIC
program. I think everyone will deploy
billions of dollars of their own AS6,
tens of billions of dollars. In the case
of Google, hundreds of billions of
dollars a year of their own AS6. But
ultimately, they're also going to have
workloads that don't use TPUs, right?
Some of the Google bets that are not
Gemini Deepbind actually primarily use
GPUs. They don't use TPUs. Um, some of
them also primarily use TPUs, right?
It's a bit of a broad thing, but like,
you know, maybe for drug discovery or
for Whimo, you might not want to use
TPUs. I won't say which one it is, but
like, you know, there's there's there's
there's different architecture bets and
different paths for AI. AI for science
may have different algorithmic patterns
than than general intelligence AGI
models. Um, and so I think we'll see
we'll see diversity continue to
proliferate. Yeah. and and and because
the market has gotten so big, niches
will be carved out and so that's makes
it possible for companies to have their
niche and actually make money even if
the majority of the pie goes to Nvidia
and TPU and tranium.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; Okay. Love that. Can we talk about the
data center buildout? Like one, it seems
like I mean by all accounts if you look
at the charts like dollars per compute
hour, we are in the middle of a crazy
compute crunch. Um and it seems like
it's both a demand and supply side
crunch, right? demand for long agents
skyrocketing, supply, all these data
center buildouts are delayed. Um, do you
think this we're in a compute crunch for
the foreseeable future or do you think
it alleviates at some point?
&gt;&gt; Yes, every quarter we're deploying
vastly more compute than the prior
quarter and there's more data centers
built than the prior quarter. Um, this
year there's going to be 20 gigawatts uh
even accounting for the delays and next
year there's going to be more than 30
gigawatts accounting for the delays. Um,
of course delays happen on everything,
right? Anything hardware can have a
delay. That's that's just the reality of
life. Are we gonna have a compute crunch
for the rest of our lives? It depends on
what happens with models. But like the
TAM for Mythos, you know, Mythos 5,
Fable 5 is not just like 2x that of
Opus, right? The model is so much better
and it can do so many more tasks that
the Tamford is way larger than that. And
yet compute in the world did not double
in the last, you know, six months,
right? From, you know, Opus or maybe
like seven or eight months since Opus 45
launched to now. huge you know 46 47 48
were improvements but fable and methos
were like a huge step function
improvement the world's compute did not
double in that or or quadruple or
whatever in that same time frame but the
demand for useful tasks that can be done
by AI the number of useful tasks and the
value of them that can be done by AI has
and so now the question is what happens
well obviously anthropic in Q2 is
profitable their net income profitable
um excluding stockbased compensation um
And and I think by Q3 they may even be
profitable including stockbased
compensation. That's like how profitable
they're getting. And their margins on a
on a on an Opus token, at least Opus 48
token is like north of 80% for the API
price. They've got a lot of deals where
their total corporate gross margins gets
clawed down a little bit uh because of
like how they do bedrock deals and
vertex deals and things like that. But
ultimately their their per token margin
is so high. Well, then if you don't have
the cap, they have the capability to pay
ultimately every GPU they buy at above
market rate. You know, they also bought
GPUs at above market rate from SpaceX,
which is below the rate of Google, but
that's because they signed earlier. Um,
you know, it's it's something that, you
know, other companies, maybe a
ventureback company or company that's
not really got positive uh margins can't
necessarily do, right? What is the cost
benefit ratios like every GPU I rent
because I'm out of compute capacity I
can immediately turn around and sell
tokens on it or every TPU or every
tranium I can immediately sell tokens on
it at a positive margin and if I'm
running 75% gross margin and I double
the cost of the compute it's fine I'm
still running 50% gross margin and
spinning up more compute nodes is not
really necessarily a human requiring
task for them if they're renting them
and so ultimately it's like well my NOI
still goes up right and and so I'm going
to rent GPUs at whatever price at some
level whatever price I want to pay I can
pay.
&gt;&gt; I have almost the reverse question of
like at some point does this compute
build out go bump at night? Earlier
today I think there was a tweet like
Cuso publicly said one of their
customers had asked to halt construction
on one of their data center buildouts.
Like it seems like everybody in the
ecosystem is so levered right now to
like we got to build, we got to go
build, we got to build. High leverage
high growth to me is like makes me very
very nervous as investor. Like
&gt;&gt; wait hold on. High leverage high growth
means small amount of equity has huge
upside. You're not a debt investor.
&gt;&gt; You're a credit you're an equity
investor, right?
&gt;&gt; Let's go.
&gt;&gt; Um,
&gt;&gt; look, you got you got to go to the
school of private equity. Levered
buyouts only.
&gt;&gt; I actually come from the school of
private equity.
&gt;&gt; Oh, awesome.
&gt;&gt; She forgot the school. It's been a VC
for too long.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; No, I just do revenue multiples. No, but
are you do you see any signs of that?
Are you worried about that?
&gt;&gt; I I I see what you mean. Right. And that
sort of goes back to the model point,
right? Obviously if the models expanding
the total economic valuable like work
sort of the dark GDP uh report that we
did and the you mentioned earlier um if
the work that these models can do does
not expand faster than the compute
capacity then that tide turns right and
over the last six months that tide has
been you know very much levered in this
direction of um you know the models can
do more work or can is exp or expanding
their TAM of work they can do faster
than the compute is increasing And so
prices go up. It's very possible that
all of a sudden model progress stops.
You talk to anyone at Enthropic or
OpenAI, maybe they're drinking the
Kool-Aid, but you talk to basically all
of them, they're like, "No, no, no, no.
Model progress still go up." Um, and so,
you know, ultimately, you know, current
methods could stall somewhere. I'm not
sure where that would be. It seems like
we have line of sight to model
improvement, rapid model improvement.
And in fact, models are improving faster
than they were six months ago or a year
ago because there's I wouldn't call it
recursive self-improvement, but
basically the engineer the models are
helping write all the info and and
launch the next model sooner and sooner
and sooner. So you've got this like
pseudo recursive self-improvement loop
going and so the models are getting
better and better and better faster. Um
and so but ultimately, you know, capital
is a big problem which is why Google
raised capital. You know, they they've
got an ungodly amount of SpaceX, right?
They own like 5% of the company.
&gt;&gt; I think a little more, but yeah. Yeah,
maybe.
&gt;&gt; I think at one point they had like 10%.
&gt;&gt; Larry Page invested a billion dollars at
a $10 billion valuation, got 10% of the
company, it got diluted, like all this.
But that was one of the greatest
investments of all time. Good job,
Larry. The guy.
&gt;&gt; So, they know they have like a hundred
billion dollars in the bank that they
can sell in, you know, nine months or
whatever from the lockup.
&gt;&gt; And they have all the gross profit they
do, and yet they still modeled that. and
they were like we need to raise capital
and so they did an offering and it's
like that's insane. So that tells you
how much they think they need to spend.
But capital is like really, you know,
you know, Meta's do Meta did announce
that they're going to do a raise. Stock
tanked. People don't like it, but you
know, that's all these companies are
going to raise capital, whether it be
debt or equity. At some point, money
spiggots will have to, you know, slow
down. But right now, every GPU that
Amazon adds, they're making higher
revenue or every TPU or tranium, you
know, whoever anyone adds is is making
is making gross profit. I do a little
bit of a tea up on this to turn into a
question for you. But like
&gt;&gt; as we talk about this for me, the thing
that's going my through my head that's
that is almost an alternative hypothesis
for like the Crusoe example. I'm going
use an analogy in oil like in oil Saudi
Arabia has way lower cost per barrel to
produce oil than a lot of other
countries. There's also like the purity
of the oil. A lot of you know Saudi has
generally like very low contaminants in
their oil which makes refining easier
all of this. The question for me is like
when you look at for every gigawatt
that's being put in the ground if call
it the 20 gigawatts coming online today
like how much like how much homogeneity
do you see in those gigawatts? Is it
something like and I don't you can tell
me whatever metric you think is right
but like are Google's gigawatts two
times more valuable than say most
Neoclouds because they have optical
switches and they have like they've been
doing it for a long time and like they
know how to do power smoothing because I
think this could be the alternative
hypothesis that some of the people that
are it's like the people that are good
at at building data centers they they
should just do it to the max because
there's so much demand and there's so
much better than it, but then maybe
we're starting to see the early signs of
the people that are like not as good at
it kind of getting hit a little. So I
like I don't know the reality here. I'm
just curious how you think about this.
&gt;&gt; So so far um there there are metrics for
this, right? So uh tranium sells at
sub10 billion per gawatt rental rate uh
to anthropic and to open aai. GPUs at
least before the craziness of the last
six months usually went around 12 to$13
billion per gigawatt. So the rental rate
and this is from a neocloud versus
Amazon even and now when Amazon sells
GPUs they'd also be 13 or so
&gt;&gt; and my understanding of that also is
that those number like Amazon subsidized
that a little bit so that it's like I
actually think the numbers were even
like I think the disparity was even more
&gt;&gt; it's less than 10. It's less than 10 but
there's like some weird basically
&gt;&gt; and like look I my understanding obvious
like anthropic played a big role in
making tranium useful in terms of you
know writing all the libraries etc and
and so like I
&gt;&gt; everything I hear is that tranium's
really freaking good hardware and it's
getting way like way better and
obviously anthropic now using it a lot
so hopefully we would see that price go
up you know like per the the deal they
did was actually like there was a floor
mechanism them and like it if it didn't
do well it would be like cheaper and
then to the point where it's
cancelceable and you know if it if it
did really well the price is kind of
higher um but effectively um less than
10 right is is where tranium shakes out
at whereas GPUs I mean this the SpaceX
deal again was like 25 or something
crazy billion dollars per gigawatt or
$25 million per megawatt right a year
rental rate with Google I was like
that's a crazy divergence now obviously
if if if Amazon was selling tranium
today it' probably be more expensive
than 10 because the comput shortages,
but you you do see this already in the
sense of uh with data centers oftent
times a rental price of a data center if
you're doing collocation, right? Not
compute in there, but just power. Here's
the data center. Um you you price it
generally on a uh dollars per kilowatt
per month. And so they used to be $60
per kilowatt hour per month, and now you
see things transacting at anywhere from
like 120 to 160. Um but different
quality data centers, this actually
you've I've seen data centers go as high
as 200. um when the customer is not such
a great credit rating and then the data
center is a pretty good one. And I've
seen stuff go as low as 100 still or in
like India go like as low as 80 because
the grid's not reliable, the internet
connection's not great and it's a pretty
mid data center but at least it's a data
center. Um and so you you see this huge
discrepancy there already.
Um in the case of like data center
construction, usually the pitfalls they
just fail. There's a lot of people who
fail, you know, claim they're g they're
like they're like four guys they they're
like, "Yeah, we here I bought some
turbines. I put the money down for them.
I'm gonna build a data center." And then
they get delayed, delayed, delayed, and
fail. Um, so you have to like
probability, weight, time, weight, time
lag, the teams that suck versus don't.
Um, and and sort of, you know, our data
center model does that. We kind of track
every data center uh and try and do this
for every single one based on, you know,
equipment that they're using and all
these things. One of the things you
mentioned about Google is you know in a
gigawatt data center they'll actually
put like 1.5 gigawatts of hardware and
because they have such understanding all
the way from workload to u you know
they're able to slosh the power around
and so instead of you know constantly
you know a gigawatt of compute which
typically runs at like 60 or 70%
utilization in terms of power
consumption not utilization of the
hardware someone's always renting it um
they're now running it at like you know
you know that 60 to 70% means it's at a
gigawatt and you're using the full
gigawatt um you see people doing deals
with including Google with utilities
where they're like, "Oh, well, I know
this grid can sustainably take a
gigawatt, but you know, except for three
days of the year, you can actually do
two gigawatts, so give me two gigawatts
and then just tell me to turn off." And
so they'll do that. And so these sorts
of tricks and then you need to have
supreme management of workload, backup
power, all these things, um, generators
on site to figure out how to actually
keep it 2 gigawatts sustainably. When
people do this, they're able to charge
more. Whether it be I'm actually selling
two gigawatts despite only having one
gigawatt because those three deers deal
days I'm be able to deal with via
battery, gas, etc. or I figured out how
to build power on site. Now I have a
gigawatt where no one else does and so
I'm able to do it quickly. Um it's not
necessarily transacting for a higher
price. It's that I'm selling more
gigawatts. And sometimes there are
levers where you're selling more
gigawatts is where where each gigawatt
is selling at a different price. Um I
think it's more on the data center and
energy layer. It's more about just
having it versus not and then that being
delayed or not. It's more binary. But on
the compute side, I do think there's a
lot more um interesting work there.
Right? A gigawatt given to Enthropic is
objectively worth more revenue than a
gigawatt given to OpenAI. And it seems
that both of them could sell every
gigawatt that they have right now. Uh
given rate limit problems and token max
limit and all these sorts of things at
OpenAI and anthropic. Uh especially
since Codex 5.5 came out, it's much
better. And then likewise, if you gave a
gigawatt to SpaceX, you know, they turn
&gt;&gt; my my guess, like my suspicion is that
they're they probably make better use of
the, you know, hardware than most
people. Um, just like I think people
underestimate how much networking
experience they have from Starlink in
particular and also how much just like
power management experience they have
via from Tesla.
&gt;&gt; Yeah. people like Brett Mayo are like
incredible like
&gt;&gt; pretty good.
&gt;&gt; Yeah.
&gt;&gt; And so I I think that like for me that's
actually I think probably the thing that
might I don't actually know the answer
but I think that might be missing from
the analysis a lot of people are doing.
&gt;&gt; I think I think it's also the fact that
when Coreweave builds a gigawatt even
though their GPU compute is objectively
better than Amazon or Google or
Microsoft's in terms of performance.
We've tested the performance and
reliability. Um, the problem is Google
sells it six months before they have it
up and they need to turn around and take
that paper that they signed to get debt
uh with that credit backing and then
turn around so they can actually pay for
the PO that they've already issued you
know for the order that they've already
issued. Whereas SpaceX was like no no no
this is running now buy it right and
it's it's a big discrepancy when you
have a balance sheet to do that versus
not and that also helps your revenue per
megawatt like be much higher.
&gt;&gt; Why does the Neocloud opportunity even
exist? Because if you had asked me five
years ago, I would have said the
hyperscalers are going to own this. And
you know, you mentioned just now core
weight has better performance than than
the hyperscalers. Like what why does
this opportunity exist maybe at the
macro level and then in the execution
level?
&gt;&gt; Yeah. So in 2023 I wrote a report that
had uh Amazon really hate me. Um it was
called Amazon cloud crisis. So I talked
about how Amazon was the best cloud
because they had their nitro nicks which
offered like tenant isolation. all the
hypervisor ran on the nick and then you
could sell all the cores and they had
you know custom SSDs that they made and
they'd buy the raw NAND and they'd have
lower cost because they'd buy the raw
nand and build their own SSDs um and you
know they had their custom graviton CPUs
and that drove down cost for for per
core and so they had all these things
that enabled them to sell more cores
have better security good networking for
but this was all for the traditional CPU
better storage for the traditional you
know cloud world but in the AI cloud a
lot of this stuff hurt performance right
these nitro necks bad for performance,
still are worse performance. Although
they've caught up a lot because they've
had a couple iterations to like, you
know, improve them, but they're still
worse for performance. Um, a lot of the
security stuff doesn't matter because
it's not like I'm time splicing users or
splicing a socket into many users,
right? It's like no one buy rents a
single GPU and an 8GPU server. No one
rents a single GPU in a 72GPU rack. They
rent the whole rack and in fact, they
rent many of the racks. And so, and then
and then there's no like, oh, I rent for
six hours and I give it back. it's
everyone has these long-term contracts.
So, the mechanics of the GPU rental
market meant that a lot of the expertise
of the hyperscalers fell away. Um, and a
lot of the expertise that they did have
were actually some of them were
detrimental, right? Network performance
for Google and Amazon. It was they had
custom networks that were better for
traditional CPU and for the stuff that
they were doing, but actually worked for
AI. Um and then in other cases it's like
well you know Microsoft would save money
by building their own data centers but
their data center teams are actually
were not actually that great and so when
it came time to run you know when it was
predictable building it was like fine
when it came time to like actually
double your forecast for the year it's
like they fell on their face and they
had to go get a bunch of NeoCloud
capacity. I think so performance I think
you know I think time to market's
another one right ne you know these
massive organizations no one's getting
rich from building this data center
faster right but you look at Crusoe for
example Chase and and and and all the
other people at the team you know I was
going to name some people at the team
I'd rather not you know these all these
people are getting rich if they
deliver these this compute faster
they're they're you know they're lever
they're hyperlevered equity owners
&gt;&gt; hey look they're also all coming from
Bitcoin And and you know they you're not
supposed to say that.
&gt;&gt; Uh I mean a lot of the data center like
their main data center guy came from
Microsoft.
&gt;&gt; I don't know. I'm just I'm just teasing.
But it's uh you know it's like you learn
you learn a lot when you're in a very
high fluctuation you know market.
&gt;&gt; What do you think was Jensen playing for
each chess?
&gt;&gt; Jensen absolutely hates a world where
all the hyperscalers have all the power.
There's a reason he's like blowing money
on like random AI labs that like I don't
even know if like it makes sense to but
like you know he's blowing money and
pumping them up and going to you know
everyone around the world and saying you
should invest in this company because he
wants to create a multipolar world.
That's why he loves Chinese labs because
he wants to create a multipolar world. A
world where open anthropic and Google
models are the only models is one in
which he's screwed. Yep.
&gt;&gt; Right. Um a world in which you know the
hyperscalers are the only ones building
compute is one he's screwed in. Yeah.
&gt;&gt; And so, you know, of course he needs to
point the allocation gun at NeoClouds,
help back stop their clusters, do
anything and everything because while
today a GPU sold to Cruso and a GPU sold
to um Coree and a GPU sold to Google and
Amazon are all the same price for him,
five years from now Cruso and Coree
existing means Google TPU will be weaker
and means Amazon tranium will be weaker
and more inference being done with you
know non-clos model labs is is better
for firm. So I think you know the
neocloud ecosystem is you know it's
these people that are wild west these
neolabs as well a lot of them have
investments from Nvidia it's the wild
west some will fail many will fail but
you know some will emerge as really
great teams whether it be you know oddly
cruso who's a bunch of crypto guys who
then started building data centers and
doing flared gas stuff or you know
corweave who initially was a bunch of
New York hedge fun guys
&gt;&gt; they were also and then they were doing
&gt;&gt; and crypto guys but then they they they
like built you know there were a lot of
people who didn't bubble up like them
started around the same time just failed
Right. And so I think you know um
&gt;&gt; I gotta say both those teams are
phenomenal. They deserve a lot of credit
and it's like that's your point. But
&gt;&gt; yeah, I mean my point is like he he you
know you throw it's like you throw a
bunch of like bait into the water and
the best fish will figure out and
survive, right? Um and and sort of the
same way with the Neoclouds and and and
he hopes the Neols as well. We'll see if
any of the Neolabs really bubble up, but
like you know Thinking Machines has a
few hundred million dollars of ARR,
right? That's pretty impressive even
though they've had you know in the media
it's like oh they've lost all this
talent. It's like, well, but Tinker is
doing a few hundred million of ARR.
Like, that's pretty impressive for out
of the gate a product that's less than
six months old or whatever. Um, and and
you, you know, we hope the same happens
to other Neolabs and and so um you know,
he wants a multipolar world.
&gt;&gt; Truly, congratulations on the success.
Thank you. Just the last thing I'll say
is I've seen a little bit of this. I
think the public, they can probably tell
from listening to you how hard you work,
but like it's clear you've just been
working your ass off for more than a
decade and it, you know, led to the last
few years of being in the right place,
right time. But like it's unbelievable
what you've accomplished and I know it's
just the beginning. So,
&gt;&gt; thank you so much.
&gt;&gt; Thank you for doing this.
&gt;&gt; Awesome.